To those in the future who may find my remains, know that these people I have come to love as my own may be violent in nature, but they too have a heart and can show compassion. Before you judge I implore you to read this memoir in its fullest, before you continue on your journey.
I was but a young girl learning to be a priestess when the Illagers first arrived {landing_place} in the summer of the {time}th cycle. They came with their boats and ravaged our beautiful village, and I was lucky enough to escape by myself.
In the days to come I tried to survive in the {lushest_biome} {"nearby" if lushest_biome != primary_biome}, but soon I became weak and hungry.
One day an illager by the name of Ruben found the cave I had dug, {cave_location}, while foraging.
I was scared and tried to get away, but I was too weak to run and tripped and fell unconscious.
But when I awoke it was not behind bars, but still in my cave, covered in a blanket and with some stale bread beside me.
At first I was confused and cautious, but soon Ruben would visit me every moon and bring me food, and would sit by my side silently listening to the sounds of the monsters outside.
When he was by me, I felt safe and sheltered and didn't need to be afraid of the darkness outside.
We tried to talk to each other, but we spoke different tongues, but then I began to draw on the walls with dye made from crushed flowers.
The drawings are likely long gone, by my memory of them remains, and Ruben would try to draw where he came from, what was happening at the village and I would draw him pictures of my life. He was the healer of his clan, but when he was needed in battle he wielded an axe, what I would later come to know as a vindicator.
With time he would show his friends to me, and when the old captain died I was introduced to the village and, after displaying my talents, was accepted as part of the clan.

In the belief of the Illagers, they were created by gods they call the 'Mojang' and given the purpose of spreading across the infinite world and killing 'the Cruel One', a beast so foul and strong it punches animals to death for the fun of it and levels entire forests in days, looting and killing all the way without mercy.
But the testificates discovered they can profit from the Cruel One, since it is said it has riches beyond measure from it's countless exploitations, and they wish to defend it to such a degree that they have created guardians of iron, the strength of which is nigh unmached.
Normally, the Illagers and testificates live tolerantly, avoiding each other by any means possible, but when a patrol spots the Cruel One, they cannot allow it to continue. Knowing the Cruel One gravitates towards villages, they prepare for battle and, when the time is right, they attack the village and fight to the death.
The testificates with their infinite greed will try to stop the illagers, so they have no choice but to make them targets as well. In the illager's culture, dying in battle is a much worthier and less painful death to natural causes, and since they have too little food and manpower to take care of prisoners they kill the testificates in battle, praying for those who have died when they return to their homes.
In their eyes, no sacrifice is too high to stop the Cruel One, no matter how gruelling or evil it may seem.
I hope that you can forgive my people for their deeds, and can come to appreciate their cultures and crafts. The work and ingenuity they have spent in building {structure_specific text}

May Mojang keep your beacons lit, and may your arrows fly true.

A loving wife

Troglo
